Add SSE Proxy page (#1766)
TykTechnologies/tyk-docs: tyk-docs/content/advanced-configuration/sse-proxy.md

---
title: "SSE Proxy"
date: 2021-09-28
tags: [""]
description: ""
menu: 
  main:
    parent: "Advanced Configuration"
url: "/advanced-configuration/sse-proxy"
weight: 6
---

## Using Tyk as a server-sent events (SSE) Proxy

> Tyk Gateway supports SSE proxying over HTTP, enabling a client to receive a stream of updates from a server over a long running HTTP connection.

Author: Apart from the HTML spec, there's no definitive wiki on SSE, so probably not wise to link to anything.

> ### Prerequisites

Author: Changed

> - Enable SSE support on the Gateway by setting `http_server_options.enable_websockets` to true in your Gateway config file.

Author: Done

> - Set `http_server_options.read_timeout` and `http_server_options.write_timeout` to appropriately high values to prevent the connection between the User and the Gateway from being closed prematurely.  By way of example you could try setting both to `2000`, but this is for you to determine in your environment.

Reviewer: Agree, more accurate to use `api consumer` than `User`.  I would suggest a slight rewording though:

To maintain an open connection between the api consumer and gateway, set `http_server_options.read_timeout` and `http_server_options.write_timeout` to appropriately high values (in milliseconds). By way of example, you could try setting both to `2000`, but this is for you to determine in your environment.

> - Set `http_server_options.read_timeout` and `http_server_options.write_timeout` to appropriately high values to prevent the connection between the User and the Gateway from being closed prematurely.  By way of example you could try setting both to `2000`, but this is for you to determine in your environment.

Author: Changed

- Set `http_server_options.flush_interval` to an appropriate value, e.g. `1`, to force Tyk to stream the response to the client every `n` seconds.

### Example using Tyk as an SSE proxy
For this we will need:

> * An SSE server.  For this example we will use [this server](https://github.com/kljensen/golang-html5-sse-example)

Author: Done

* An instance of Tyk Gateway and optionally Tyk Dashboard

#### Steps:

> * Ensure the Gateway configuration options detailed in the prerequisites have been set.

Author: Done

* Run the SSE server as per the example instructions.  By default this runs on port `8000`.
```
go run ./server.go
```
* Publish an API with the following configuration:
    * Set an appropriate listen path: e.g. `/sse`
    * Strip the listen path
    * Now set the `target_url` to be the example SSE server: `<host>:8000`, e.g. `http://host.docker.internal:8000`

>     * Hit save, and once the Gateway finishes reloading we can test the solution

Author: Done

> * From the command line we can consume the service via tyk gateway using `curl`. Simply type `curl http://localhost:8080/sse/events/` and we should see a stream of updates from the server, similar to the following

Author: Done

## Using Tyk as a server-sent events (SSE) Proxy

Tyk Gateway supports SSE proxying over HTTP, and can sit in the middle between the client and the SSE server and support the server sending updates to the client.

### Setup
- Enable SSE support on the Gateway: Set `http_server_options.enable_websockets` to `true` in your Tyk Gateway config file.
- To maintain an open connection between the API consumer and the Tyk Gateway, set `http_server_options.read_timeout` and `http_server_options.write_timeout` to appropriately high values (in milliseconds). For example, you could try setting both to `2000`, but this is for you to determine in your environment.
- Set `http_server_options.flush_interval` to an appropriate value, e.g. `1`, to force Tyk to stream the response to the client every `n` seconds.

### Example using Tyk as an SSE proxy
For this we will need:

* An SSE server.  For this example we will use [Golang HTML 5 SSE example](https://github.com/kljensen/golang-html5-sse-example)
* An instance of the Tyk Gateway and optionally the Tyk Dashboard

#### Steps:

> * Ensure the Gateway configuration options detailed in the prerequisites are set.

Reviewer 2: @rewsmith what are the prereq?

Reviewer: The prereqs are detailed under Setup

Reviewer: I suppose to be clearer we could say `Ensure the Gateway configuration options detailed under Setup are set`

> * Ensure the Gateway configuration options detailed in the prerequisites are set.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Ensure the Gateway configurations detailed in the Setup section are set.
```
